---

url_pdf: ''
summary: This project is based on the 2021 CAR-ASHRAE Student Design Competition, which won the first prize. The project aims to design cooling and heating source and air conditioning.
url_video: ""
external_link: ""
url_slides: ""
title: HVAC Engineering Design for Office Building of China Construction Eighth Engineering Division
date: '2021-06-18T13:00:00Z'
date_end: ''
links: []
image:
url_code: ""
---
{{% staticref "uploads/PresentationSlide.pdf" "newtab" %}}Download the Slide.(In Chinese){{% /staticref %}}

This project is based on the 2021 CAR-ASHRAE Student Design Competition, which won the first prize nationwide.

This project is an office building of a state-owned enterprise in Hunnan District, Shenyang, with a total land area of 19,998.57m2; the project has one basement level, nine floors above ground and two podium levels. The main functions of the ground floor are equipment rooms and garages, including refrigeration rooms, substations, water pump rooms, etc.; the main functions of the first floor are restaurants, archive rooms, honour rooms, offices, lounges, etc.; the main functions of the first floor are ball activity rooms, gymnasiums, large meeting rooms, reading rooms, etc.; the main functions of the third to ninth floors are offices, meeting rooms, etc. The scope of this design is the design of the HVAC system for each functional area in the building, including the design of the ventilation and air conditioning system and the common system for smoke evacuation.

The design is guided by the Green Building 2-star standard. On the basis of thorough research, the building is modelled using BIM technology and imported into Gbsware software for year-round building load calculations, and a variety of suitable end forms are adopted through analysis of the building load characteristics and room function features. At the same time, according to the demand of the terminal and the energy conditions of the building, the heating and cooling source solution was determined. For the case where the heat consumption of the building is greater than the cooling consumption in the cold region, the solar-ground source heat pump system was selected, and the year-round operation strategy of the heating and cooling source system was proposed, reflecting the design concept of green energy-saving economy and priority use of renewable energy.

The main elements and methods of this design are as follows.

**(1) Load calculation.** On the basis of a thorough study of the building, the building was modelled in three dimensions using Revit software and imported into the Gbsware HVAC load calculation software for hourly load calculations throughout the year, and the correctness of the software results was verified by using hand calculations for the centralised office and conference room loads.

**(2) Indoor air treatment plan and air system design.** The design is based on the load characteristics and scenario needs of each functional partition in the building, and the air conditioning partitions are divided, and on the basis of the differences in airflow organisation between summer and winter and the use of renewable energy, a combination of centralised and decentralised end forms are used to fully meet the different needs of the rooms. **a)** The lobby and lounge use fan coils or multi-connector ends to bear the indoor load in summer, and radiant floor ends to bear the indoor load in winter. **b)** the staff canteen with a large residual humidity and the large conference room with a high density of personnel and a small air supply temperature use all-air secondary return air units; **c)** for the ball activity room for the strict requirements of airflow speed, the air conditioning box with cloth bag duct cooling in summer and low temperature radiant floor heating in winter, both of which are combined with a set of fresh air system; **d)** in the office above the third floor areas, water-cooled multi-connected units + fresh air systems are used in summer, and radiant floor heating + fresh air systems are used in winter; **e)** for the archive room to store drawings and information with the need to run all day, constant temperature and humidity units with independent heat and cold sources are used; **f)** for the duty room, car shift dispatching room and other rooms with large differences in use time with the surrounding area, split type air conditioning is used; centralised air handling units are all heat recovery units. In terms of airflow organization, all conventional rooms use upward air supply corridor return air in summer and radiant floor heating + fresh air upward air supply in winter; the ball activity room is finally selected to use cloth bag air supply in summer and radiant floor heating in winter through the simulation of Fluent software, and all use the floor to send new air system; the lobby and the two-storey high lounge use the middle air supply, and the large conference room uses the seat air supply.

**(3) Heat and cold source scheme.** This design adopts solar energy - buried pipe ground source heat pump system, using solar energy resources to solve the soil heat imbalance caused by the use of ground source heat pump alone in cold areas. In the transitional season, the solar collectors and the buried pipes operate together to store heat for the soil across seasons; in the air-conditioning season, the ground source heat pump unit and the water-cooled multiple unit provide cooling for the building while releasing condensing heat to the soil; in the heating season, the direct solar supply is used as a priority, and when the solar energy cannot meet the full heat load of the building, the ground source heat pump is switched on to make up for it. The effective heat storage capacity of the system during the transition season was simulated by TRNSYS software to verify the reliability of the system's year-round operation.

**(4) Operation strategy and automatic control. a)** For this cooling and heat source system, a year-round operation control strategy with multiple modes was designed. **b)** For the terminal air-conditioning units, a basic regulation scheme and a year-round operation regulation scheme were set up to regulate the fresh air volume according to the number of people (indoor CO2 concentration) and the air treatment volume according to the outdoor air parameters. The air treatment scheme is adjusted according to the outdoor air parameters to ensure the comfort of personnel in various indoor and outdoor environments. **c)** For the transmission and distribution system, on the basis of ensuring hydraulic stability, a primary pump variable flow system is used on the user side, and the differential pressure control method is used to control the frequency conversion of the pumps, which not only meets the end load requirements, but also improves the energy efficiency of the system.

**(5) Ventilation and smoke evacuation.** The design of the ventilation and smoke extraction system was carried out for the basement level parking garage, where the exhaust system is combined with the smoke extraction system, using a two-speed fan. Under normal circumstances, the fan runs at low speed as an exhaust ventilation use, and when a fire occurs, the fan switches to high-speed operation and is used as a fire smoke extraction fan.

**(6) Green building evaluation.** After the completion of the preliminary design, the building was pre-evaluated for green building to verify whether the design accomplished the design objectives.

